# Code generation recipes for the [Amber Web Framework](https://amberframework.org)

Amber generators can use a recipe to generate your application, and scaffold your
application with controllers, models and views.  Using a recipe you can get started
with an amber application that extends or modifies the standard built in generator
or provides additional features.  For example you might want an API application
that only renders JSON or use React or AngularJS for views.

To create an amberframework application from a recipe type;
```sh
amber new <appname> -r <recipe>
```
to create a new amber app from the given named recipe in a folder with the given appname.

The given recipe can be either
- a recipe from this repository
- a directory with an application template
- a URL pointing to a recipe folder (which should contain an app template)

Read the **Recipes** section in the [online guides](https://amberframework.org/guides)
for more information.

## Available recipes

Recipes in this repository are divided into themes based on the kind of application and scaffolding
generated by the recipe.  For example the **basic/granite** recipe mimics the
amber built-in application template using the granite ORM.

To create a new amber app from this recipe at the command line type
```sh
amber new newapp -r basic/granite
```
to create a new amber app from the recipe at basic/granite in the
folder newapp.  

```sh
amber new newapp -r default
```
Uses a copy of the standard built-in template and is the same as typing
```sh
amber new newapp
```

## Using a template in a local folder
You can use a local folder as the source template for a new amber application e.g.
```sh
mkdir default_recipe
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/amberframework/recipes/master/dist/default.zip
unzip -d default_recipe default.zip
amber new newapp -r default_recipe
```

The result of which is equivalent to
```sh
amber new newapp -r default
```

## Available Recipes

Read [Contributions](https://github.com/amberframework/recipes/blob/master/Contributions.md)
to see a list of available themes and app recipes.  Each theme folder provides additional
information in the folder README.

## Recipe issues

If you notice a problem with a recipe please raise an issue including example of the
expected output and actual output or any errors using the application generated by
the recipe.

## Notes to Contributors

Recipes use the [Liquid template language](https://github.com/TechMagister/liquid.cr).
The file extension should be **.liquid** but if you prefer shorter 3 letter file extensions
you can also use **.lqd** which is an unknown or unnassigned file extension.  To create a
new recipe fork https://github.com/amberframework/recipes, clone your fork, create a new
sub folder in the appropriate theme folder (or create a new theme if it doesn't already exist),
extract an existing recipe, make your modifications.  To build a zip file for distribution type
```
bash scripts/build_zips.sh
```
Then submit a PR.

Recipes should contain the following templates:

- app
- controller
- model
- scaffold

Don't forget to add an entry to Contributions.md and the theme folder README.md about your recipe.

Many Thanks.
